# Tableau dashboard documentation
## Major decisions
* **Date filter:** Did not use a date filter because it causes issues due to how data are pulled. For example, if there is even one DOI from 2020, even if all of the rest of the DOIs are from 2021, using the date filter makes it appear as if the data consist of records from 2020 and 2021 – which is technically true, but very easy to misinterpret. Makes more sense to have users manually add a date.
* **Field names:** Did not change any of the field names in Tableau so that the data can be replaced without any issues directly from the data pull. If you change any of the field names, whether in Tableau or the data source, you will have to make sure that the names are consistent between Tableau and the data source. 
* **How the dashboard is counting:** The total numbers are being calculated by the distinct count of DOI from the home/anchor institution. What this means is that a paper with two collaborating authors is counted the same number of times (once) as a paper with ten collaborating authors. That is because the DOI itself is a collaboration, not the number of authors. This logic also applies to the number of collaborating cities. 
## Groups
**Institution grouping:** Each institution has to create two groups from the **Org2** field: one that is ONLY their institution, one that is ONLY other institutions. That makes it possible to filter out their own institution from the data. 
## Measures
**City2**, **DOI**, and **Orcid1** have all been duplicated and converted to measures in order to be able to get the counts of those fields.
## Maps/geocoding
* The ***latitude*** and ***longitude*** fields are automatically generated by Tableau based on the geographic information in the data. For Tableau to be able to read and geocode the data, the information must be broken down into individual components: city, state, country. 
* Sometimes, Tableau doesn’t know how to code a city. You can manually resolve this issue. On the map, in the bottom right corner, it’ll say **[x number] Unknown**. Follow the instructions in the [Edit Unknown or Ambiguous Locations](https://help.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/maps_editlocation.htm) resource to edit these locations. 
* In the data pull, the columns for state are called **Region1** (home institution) and **Region2** (collaborating institution). 
